02_activities/homework/shell_advanced/shell_advanced.md, before:

# Unix Shell Advanced Practice

## Introduction
Kaylee and Simeon are biomedical engineering researchers trying to reanalyze data from an undergraduate project, where they collected electroencephalography (EEG), electromyography (EMG), and actigraphy (acceleration and rotational) recordings, and other information from subjects as they tried to keep their balance on a moving platform for a balance project.

Unfortunately, when they were silly undergraduates, they didn't know to keep their data tidy. They'd like your help efficiently doing the following data management tasks using your newfound Bash knowledge.

## Tasks
* Complete the listed tasks in Bash
* This homework requires commands that were not covered in the teaching sessions.
* Feel free to use any commands or strategy that you'd like. Suggested commands are listed.

### Task 1: Setup your environment
1. Download their undergraduate data package: [dataset.zip](dataset.zip?raw=1)
1. Unzip it into your directory
    * *Hint*: Consider the `unzip` command
1. Change directory into the folder containing the data package contents
    * *Hint*: Consider the `cd` command
1. To make sure we're keeping good records this time, print the current path to your working directory
    * *Hint*: Consider the `pwd` command
1. Make a new folder named `tidied_data`
    * *Hint*: Consider the `mkdir` command

### Task 2: Taking inventory
1. List the contents of the data folder
    * *Hint*: Consider the `ls` command
1. List all the EEG files and write this list to a text file in the tidied_data folder named `eeg_inventory.txt`. 
    * *Hint*: Consider the `ls` and `head` commands, and either the `>` file redirection operator or `|` pipe operator and the `tee` command
    * Preview the **first 8 lines** of this file using the `head` command, does this look right?

### Task 3: Taking inventory, part 2
1. Let's double check: does the naming convention of the EEG files match `eeg_[subjectid]_[session].edf`?
    * List the contents of the folder and inspect it visually!
1. Based on the `eeg_inventory.txt` file and the naming convention, generate a list of subject numbers and write it a file named `subject_ids_from_eeg.txt`. 
    * Preview the **first 8 lines** of this file.
    * *Hint*: Consider the `cut` command
1. Sort the `subject_ids_from_eeg.txt` file and write the output to `subject_ids_from_eeg_sorted.txt`. 
    * Preview the **first 8 lines** of this file.
1. Let's double check: does each subject have multiple EEG files? Are their subject IDs duplicated?
    * *Hint*: Look through the whole with the `less` command
1. Create a unique list of subject IDs and write the output to `subject_ids.txt`. 
    * *Hint*: Consider the `unique` command
    * Preview the **first 8 lines** of this file.

### Task 4: The life changing magic of tidying up
1. For each subject:
    1. create a folder named after the subject ID in the `tidied_data` directory
        * *Hint*: Consider a `for` loop
    1. Move all files relating to that subject into their respective directories (eg. `tidied_data/[subjectid]/eeg_[subjectid]_[session].edf`)
        * *Hint*: Consider the `mv` command
1. Notice that all the notes files have not been named consistently. Rename all the note files to `[subjectid]_notes.txt` within each subject folder.
    * *Hint*: Consider the `mv` command inside a `for` loop or using `find ... -exec mv ...`

### Task 5: Checking our work
1. Confirm that you've copied all the files over to the `tidied_data` directory
    1. Count the number of files copied:
        1. Generate a list of all the files within all the directories in `tidied_data` 
            * *Hint*: Consider the `find` command and look for files with the `-type` option
        1. Count the number of lines in the file list
            * *Hint*: Consider the `wc` command. How do we make it count lines?
    1. Count the number of files in the original folder, using the same strategy as above
1. Do the file counts match?
    * *Hint*: Consider using variables, an `if` statement, and `-eq`

Commit message:

add more prominent notice that homework is optional

02_activities/homework/shell_advanced/shell_advanced.md, after:

# Unix Shell Advanced Practice

**Note**: Homework problems are not assessed and are provided for your own personal practice. Feel free to discuss these with your peers and learning support during work sessions!

## Introduction
Kaylee and Simeon are biomedical engineering researchers trying to reanalyze data from an undergraduate project, where they collected electroencephalography (EEG), electromyography (EMG), and actigraphy (acceleration and rotational) recordings, and other information from subjects as they tried to keep their balance on a moving platform for a balance project.

Unfortunately, when they were silly undergraduates, they didn't know to keep their data tidy. They'd like your help efficiently doing the following data management tasks using your newfound Bash knowledge.

## Tasks
* Complete the listed tasks in Bash
* This homework requires commands that were not covered in the teaching sessions.
* Feel free to use any commands or strategy that you'd like. Suggested commands are listed.

### Task 1: Setup your environment
1. Download their undergraduate data package: [dataset.zip](dataset.zip?raw=1)
1. Unzip it into your directory
    * *Hint*: Consider the `unzip` command
1. Change directory into the folder containing the data package contents
    * *Hint*: Consider the `cd` command
1. To make sure we're keeping good records this time, print the current path to your working directory
    * *Hint*: Consider the `pwd` command
1. Make a new folder named `tidied_data`
    * *Hint*: Consider the `mkdir` command

### Task 2: Taking inventory
1. List the contents of the data folder
    * *Hint*: Consider the `ls` command
1. List all the EEG files and write this list to a text file in the tidied_data folder named `eeg_inventory.txt`. 
    * *Hint*: Consider the `ls` and `head` commands, and either the `>` file redirection operator or `|` pipe operator and the `tee` command
    * Preview the **first 8 lines** of this file using the `head` command, does this look right?

### Task 3: Taking inventory, part 2
1. Let's double check: does the naming convention of the EEG files match `eeg_[subjectid]_[session].edf`?
    * List the contents of the folder and inspect it visually!
1. Based on the `eeg_inventory.txt` file and the naming convention, generate a list of subject numbers and write it a file named `subject_ids_from_eeg.txt`. 
    * Preview the **first 8 lines** of this file.
    * *Hint*: Consider the `cut` command
1. Sort the `subject_ids_from_eeg.txt` file and write the output to `subject_ids_from_eeg_sorted.txt`. 
    * Preview the **first 8 lines** of this file.
1. Let's double check: does each subject have multiple EEG files? Are their subject IDs duplicated?
    * *Hint*: Look through the whole with the `less` command
1. Create a unique list of subject IDs and write the output to `subject_ids.txt`. 
    * *Hint*: Consider the `unique` command
    * Preview the **first 8 lines** of this file.

### Task 4: The life changing magic of tidying up
1. For each subject:
    1. create a folder named after the subject ID in the `tidied_data` directory
        * *Hint*: Consider a `for` loop
    1. Move all files relating to that subject into their respective directories (eg. `tidied_data/[subjectid]/eeg_[subjectid]_[session].edf`)
        * *Hint*: Consider the `mv` command
1. Notice that all the notes files have not been named consistently. Rename all the note files to `[subjectid]_notes.txt` within each subject folder.
    * *Hint*: Consider the `mv` command inside a `for` loop or using `find ... -exec mv ...`

### Task 5: Checking our work
1. Confirm that you've copied all the files over to the `tidied_data` directory
    1. Count the number of files copied:
        1. Generate a list of all the files within all the directories in `tidied_data` 
            * *Hint*: Consider the `find` command and look for files with the `-type` option
        1. Count the number of lines in the file list
            * *Hint*: Consider the `wc` command. How do we make it count lines?
    1. Count the number of files in the original folder, using the same strategy as above
1. Do the file counts match?
    * *Hint*: Consider using variables, an `if` statement, and `-eq`
