# Unix Shell Make-Up Assignment

## Instructions
* Complete the listed tasks in Bash
* Your assignment submission should consist of a shell script that performs the listed tasks
    * *Hint*: Test commands as you write them by pasting them into the terminal and checking the output and state of the folder!


## Scenario
You are a data engineer working with a set of log files generated by a web application. These logs are stored in a directory named logs and are named in the format `app_log_yyyymmdd.log`, where `yyyymmdd` represents the date the log was created. Your task is to organize these log files and extract useful information from them.

## Tasks
### Task 1
1. Download and extract [dataset-alt.zip](dataset-alt.zip?raw=1).
1. Make a directory named `./output`.
1. List all the log files in the directory and redirect the output to a file named `./outputs/all_logs.txt`.

### Task 2
1. Extract all unique dates from the log file names and save them in a file named `./outputs/unique_dates.txt`.
    * *Hint*: You may want to use the `cut`, `sort`, and `uniq` commands.

### Task 3
1. Write a for-loop that iterates over each date in `./outputs/unique_dates.txt` and searches for log files corresponding to that date.
1. For each date, create a directory named with the date (format: `yyyymmdd`) inside `./outputs`
1. Copy all corresponding log files into this directory.

### Task 4
1. Inside each date directory, concatenate all log files into a single file named `combined_yyyymmdd.log` where `yyyymmdd` corresponds to the date.
1. Copy the `combined_yyyymmdd.log` file to a directory named `./outputs/combined_logs/`.

### Part 5
1. Read each `combined_yyyymmdd.log` file and count the number of occurrences of the term 'ERROR'.
1. Output a file named `./outputs/combined_logs/error_summary.txt` with one line per date with the count of the number of `ERROR` occurences.
    1. Each line should be formatted `Date: 20240102, Error Count: 13`.

