02_assignments/assignment.md, before:

# Assignment: The Secret Password

You are stuck in a virtual room and can only leave if you figure out the password! Fortunately, somebody left behind 6 clues for you to find the secret password, but the messaging are not that clear. It is your job to discover what the secret password is!

1. The very odd and inedible ingredient in a cake recipe
2. The season number that contains only 18 episodes (Hint: How do you list them?)
3. Fifth word of Season 6, Episode 21 of Friends
4. Fifth word of the fifth fictional Space Wars series
5. Second word of this song that's exactly 4 minutes long in this "colour" album
6. The fourth word to the fourth Hanger Games movie

## Instructions
1. Use your bash skills (such as `cd`, `cat`, etc.) to figure out what the secret password is! You will be exploring the `clues` directory in your bash terminal.
2. Write the secret password in this markdown below!
3. Submit your answer to _!

**What is the secret password?**
<!-- Your answer here -->

|Criteria|Pass|Fail|
|---|---|---|
|Secret Password|The user properly used the proper bash commands to find the secret password.|The user did not properly used the proper bash commands to find the secret password.|

Commit message:

add assignment submission via github

02_assignments/assignment.md, after:

# Assignment: The Secret Password

You are stuck in a virtual room and can only leave if you figure out the password! Fortunately, somebody left behind 6 clues for you to find the secret password, but the messaging are not that clear. It is your job to discover what the secret password is!

1. The very odd and inedible ingredient in a cake recipe
2. The season number that contains only 18 episodes (Hint: How do you list them?)
3. Fifth word of Season 6, Episode 21 of Friends
4. Fifth word of the fifth fictional Space Wars series
5. Second word of this song that's exactly 4 minutes long in this "colour" album
6. The fourth word to the fourth Hanger Games movie

## Instructions
1. Use your bash skills (such as `cd`, `cat`, etc.) to figure out what the secret password is! You will be exploring the `clues` directory in your bash terminal.
1. Paste your work into a Bash script. Save this script to `02_assignments/solutions.sh` in this repository.
2. Write the secret password in this markdown file as indicated below!
3. Submit your assignment via a GitHub pull request: Add your changes to staging, commit your answer and script, push to GitHub, and create a pull request!

**What is the secret password?**
<!-- Your answer here -->

|Criteria|Pass|Fail|
|---|---|---|
|Secret Password|The user properly used the proper bash commands to find the secret password.|The user did not properly used the proper bash commands to find the secret password.|
